1   What do you understand by Database?
Ans:- A database is an organized collection of structured information,or data, typically stored electronically
       in a computer system.

2   What is  Normalization?
Ans:  Normalization:->Normalization is the process of organizing the data in a database.        
		(i)It is used to minimize the redundancy from a relation or set of relations.        
                (ii)It divides big table into small tables.

3  What is difference between DBMS and RDBMS? 
Ans:                    DBMS                                            RDBMS
                                                      |
   1. DBMS stands for DataBase Managemen stystem.     | 1.RDBMS stands for Relational DataBase Management
                                                      |    System.
   2. In DBMS data are store as a file.               | 2. In RDBMS data are store in a tabular form.
   3. It does not support client server architecture. | 3. It support client server architecture.
   4. Normalization is not available in DBMS.         | 4. Normalization is available in RDBMS.
   5. It allows one user at a time.                   | 5. It allows more than one user at a time.
   6.Heirarchical arrangement of data.                | 6. Stores data in the form of rows and column.
   7.Data fetching is slower for the large amount     | 7. Data fetching is fast because of relational
           of data.                                   |      approach.
   8.It does not support ACID(Atomicity,              | 8. It support ACID property.
      Consistency, Isolation,  Durability) property.  |
   9.Data redundancy problem exist.                   | 9. Data redundancy problem does not exist.
   10. e.g.- XML,Microsoft Access etc.                | 10 .e.g.- mysql,sql server,oracle etc.

4. What is MF Cod Rule of RDBMS Systems?
Ans: 

5 What do you understand by Data Redundancy?
Ans:  Data redundancy is when multiple  copies of the same information are stored in more than one place at a
       time and is a common occurrence in many businesses.
 

6 What is DDL Interpreter?
Ans:  DDL Interpreter:-> It interprets the DDL(Data Definition Language) statements and stores the record
                          in a data dictionary(in a table containing meta-data(data about data)).
     DDL statements-   CREATE,DROP,TRUNCATE,ALTER,RENAME. 

7 What is DML compiler in SQL?
Ans: DML compiler:-> It translates DML(Data Manipulation Language) statements in a query language within 
                      low level instructions understandable through the query evaluation engine.
     DML statements-  INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE.

8  What is SQL key constraints writing an example of SQL key constraints? 
Ans:  SQL constraints are used to specify rules for the data in a table.
      Types of key constraints:                      
             1. A PRIMARY KEY is a field which can uniquely identify each row in a table.
             2. NOT NULL constraints tells that we cannot store a null value in a column.
             3. A FOREIGN KEY is a field which can uniquely identify each row  in another table.    
             4. CHECK constraint helps to validate the value of a column to meet a particular condition. 
             5. DEFAULT constraints specifies a default value for the column when no value is specified by 
                    the user.
             6.UNIQUE constraints tells that the values in the column must be unique.
    EXAMPLE:-> CREATE TABLE  persons(
                    ID (int) NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY, Name varchar(250) NOT NULL, Age (int));

 
9 What is save point? How to create a save point write Query?
Ans:  A save point is a point in atransaction in which we can roll the transaction back to a certain point 
      without rolling back the entire transaction.

10 What is trigger and how to create a Trigger in SQL? 
Trigger:
 A trigger is a set of actions that are run automatically when a specified
 change operation (SQL INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statement) is performed on a
 specified table. Triggers are useful for tasks such as enforcing business rules,
 validating input data, and keeping an audit trail.

The CREATE TRIGGER statement creates a new trigger. 
Here is the basic syntax of the CREATE TRIGGER statement:
Syntax :
CREATE TRIGGER trigger_name
{BEFORE | AFTER} { INSERT | UPDATE| DELETE }
ON table_name FOR EACH ROW
trigger_body;
